# Exposure_T2_HT2

In this project we used the EuroMix biomonitoring study for probabilistic external exposure estimates of the mycotoxin T2 and HT2 from the diet. The external exposure will be compared with measured T2 and HT2 metabolites in the urine through statistical modelling. The results will be published as a part of the publication "Exploring the Relationship between Daily Intake and Renal Excretion of the Mycotoxins T-2 and HT-2 Toxin in Humans", by Hannah P. McKeon1, Rudolf Hoogenveen, Marta M. Sopel, Marloes A. A. Schepens, Marcel J. B. Mengelers, Annick D. van den Brand, Judith A. de Heer, Anne Lise Brants??ter, Maria Kalyva, Trine Husoy,   which are currently in drafting.

The EuroMix study is a small (n=144) bionomitoring study performed as a part of the EU funded scientific project *European Test and Risk Assessment Strategies for Mixtures (EuroMix)*. Participants recorded and weighed their food consumption (weighed food record) for a 24h period for two non-consecutive days (2-3 weeks between) in a diary. All urine voids were collected and stored separately and combined into time-pools. You can read more about the Euromix study in Husoy et al. 2019 (https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0160412019306944?via%3Dihub). 

T2 toxin (T2) and HT2 toxin (HT2) are mycotoxins of the type A trichothecenes. These mycotoxines are produced by fungi of the type Fusarium genera. T2 toxin (T2) and HT2 toxin (HT2) are mainly reported to contaminate cereals, especially oats. In Europe, oats and oat products are noted to be the most susceptible commodities to T2 and HT2 contamination. Oats grown in Scandinavia have reportedly high concentrations.


The exposure assessment were performed per meal for a selected individuals who had high consumption of oat and/or oat containing food items, since T2 and HT2 toxin is found in highest concentrations in grain and particularly in oat. 